GCP Marketplace Getting Started Guide (#525)
lightbend/cloudflow: docs/docs-source/docs/modules/get-started-gcp-marketplace/pages/deploy-cloudflow.adoc

> = Deploy Cloudflow on GCP Marketplace

Reviewer: cc @ennru

:toc:
:toc-title: ON THIS PAGE
:toclevels: 2

== Deploying Cloudflow

You have followed the xref:find-cloudflow-on-gcp-marketplace.adoc[previous step] of locating Cloudflow in the Marketplace catalog and now see the following screen:

.The Cloudflow page on Marketplace
image::cloudflow-main-gcp.png[Cloudflow page on Marketplace]

> Spend some time reading through the information on the page, especially the section on pricing. When you are ready, click "Configure" to proceed to the deployment screen:

Reviewer 2: Why do we want to highlight the pricing? This is more a question for our product gurus out there (@longmuir @kwehden)

Reviewer 3: We don't. Our pricing is made very clear in big font, no need to draw attention to it.

Author: Ok. I'll remove that part.

> Spend some time reading through the information on the page, especially the section on pricing. When you are ready, click "Configure" to proceed to the deployment screen:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Spend some time reading through the information on the page. When you are ready, click "Configure" to proceed to the deployment screen:
```

.The Cloudflow Configuration and Deployment Page
image::deploy.png[Cloudflow deployment page]

On this page, you have the ability to configure a few parameters before deploying Cloudflow. First, you'll need a Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) cluster.
If you have an existing cluster, you may select it from the dropdown menu.
Or you can quickly spin up a new cluster in your preferred cluster zone by clicking the "Create cluster" button.

> Note that your existing cluster may not be available for selection if it does not meet the resource requirements, in which case you'll also need to create a new cluster.

Reviewer 4: Do we somewhere specify what these requirements are? (maybe we can refer to it here)

Author: Yeah it's in the schema.yaml file of `cloudflow-gcp-app` repo. We haven't figured out why our specified requirements are not being honored. That's why I hesitated to put them here. I'll need to ask Dinesh for things work.

Once your cluster is up and running, go through the other configuration options.

> Some of them have a tooltip next to them that explains the purpose of that configuration option. Their names should also be self-explanatory.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Some of them have a tooltip next to them that explains the purpose of that configuration option.
```

Reviewer 4: Even though these might be simple, can we give a short explanation of them here?

Author: Sure. Good idea.

When you've verified all configuration values, click "Deploy" to deploy Cloudflow.

> Now wait about a minute, then you should see the following page:

Reviewer 4: After some time you should see the following page:

.The Cloudflow Deployment Status
image::deploy-finish.png[Cloudflow deployment status]

It shows that the components of Cloudflow are being installed, while "some components are pending".

> Wait another minute and then refresh the page, the warning message should be gone and you'll see a check mark next to the Cloudflow logo.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Wait a little longer and refresh the page and you should see a check mark next to the Cloudflow logo.
```

== What's next

> Now you have Cloudflow deployed on a GKE cluster, you are ready to xref:run-sample-application.adoc[run a sample Cloudflow application].

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Now that you have Cloudflow deployed on a GKE cluster, you are ready to xref:run-sample-application.adoc[run a sample Cloudflow application].
```
